" it certainly is a most iniquitous affair ," said mr .. as she went up stairs to get ready , mrs .. the ladies of longbourn soon waited on those of netherfield .. what am i to do ?" " nothing child , nothing .. their visitors staid with them above half an hour , and when they arose to depart , mr .. " i cannot make him out .-- there is something very pompous in his style .-- and what can he mean by apologizing for being next in the entail ?-- we cannot suppose he would help it , if he could .-- can he be a sensible man , sir ?" " no , my dear ; i think not .. you dare not , you cannot deny that you have been the principal , if not the only means of dividing them from each other , of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability , the other to its derision for disappointed hopes , and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind ." she paused , and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse .. when i last saw her , she was not very promising .. no sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph .. she is grown so brown and coarse !. darcy ;-- that to be in the same room , the same party with him for so many hours together , might be more than i could bear , and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself ." she highly approved his forbearance , and they had leisure for a full discussion of it , and for all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other , as wickham and another officer walked back with them to longbourn , and during the walk , he particularly attended to her .. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement , the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state law .. mr .. her heart had been but slightly touched , and her vanity was satisfied with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice , had fortune permitted it .. and i think you will agree with me , in considering a removal from that corps as highly advisable , both on his account and my niece ' s .. i assure you that if darcy were not such a great tall fellow , in comparison with myself , i should not pay him half so much deference .. every body is disgusted with his pride .. after lamenting it however at some length , she had the consolation of thinking that mr .. collins too !-- why should _he_ have it more than anybody else ?" " i leave it to yourself to determine ," said mr .. gardiner , looking at the picture ; " it is a handsome face .. i will have no reserves from _you_ ." " mr .. mrs .. collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room , and was assured with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless .. and what sort of young lady is she ?. collins has made you an offer of marriage .. his debts are to be paid , amounting , i believe , to considerably more than a thousand pounds , another thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_ , and his commission purchased .. mr .. darcy ." " no , indeed , i did not .-- i knew nothing at all of lady catherine ' s connections .. in as short a time as mr .. she knew not what to think , nor how to account for it .. pray write instantly , and let me understand it -- unless it is , for very cogent reasons , to remain in the secrecy which lydia seems to think necessary ; and then i must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance ." " not that i _shall_ though ," she added to herself , as she finished the letter ; " and my dear aunt , if you do not tell me in an honourable manner , i shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out ." jane ' s delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to elizabeth privately of what lydia had let fall ; elizabeth was glad of it ;-- till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any satisfaction , she had rather be without a confidante .. but elizabeth was not formed for ill - humour ; and though every prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening , it could not dwell long on her spirits ; and having told all her griefs to charlotte lucas , whom she had not seen for a week , she was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her cousin , and to point him out to her particular notice .. collins said any thing of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed , which certainly was not unseldom , she involuntarily turned her eye on charlotte .. the rapture of lydia on this occasion , her adoration of mrs .. dear me !. gardiner , though unknown .. they all paint tables , cover skreens and net purses .. but still he would be her husband .-- without thinking highly either of men or of matrimony , marriage had always been her object ; it was the only honourable provision for well - educated young women of small fortune , and however uncertain of giving happiness , must be their pleasantest preservative from want .. charlotte herself was tolerably composed .. annesley is with her .. bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match .. collins ' s return into hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to mrs .. she was not near enough to hear any of their discourse , but she could see how seldom they spoke to each other , and how formal and cold was their manner , whenever they did .. bennet , offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood .. jane was as much gratified by this , as her mother could be , though in a quieter way .. his affection was proved to have been sincere , and his conduct cleared of all blame , unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend .. he then said , " i have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly .. reynolds , pointing to another of the miniatures , " is my master -- and very like him .. let me know every thing that i am to know , without delay .. bennet : one communication would , therefore , do for all .. collins ' s letter ; and after laughing at her some time , allowed her at last to go -- saying , as she quitted the room , " if any young men come for mary or kitty , send them in , for i am quite at leisure ." elizabeth ' s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight ; and , after half an hour ' s quiet reflection in her own room , she was able to join the others with tolerable composure .. why does she not come in ?" " oh !. jane now came up .. reynolds replied , that he was , adding , " but we expect him to - morrow , with a large party of friends ." how rejoiced was elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day !. it is only that he has better means of having it than many others , because he is rich , and many others are poor .. collins , meanwhile , was meditating in solitude on what had passed .. she was not rendered formidable by silence ; but whatever she said , was spoken in so authoritative a tone , as marked her self - importance , and brought mr .. i rather wonder now at your knowing _any_ ." " are you so severe upon your own sex , as to doubt the possibility of all this ?" " _i_ never saw such a woman .. darcy ' s looks and behaviour .. bennet , i am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad , or she could not be guilty of such an enormity , at so early an age .. one morning , about a week after bingley ' s engagement with jane had been formed , as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the dining - room , their attention was suddenly drawn to the window , by the sound of a carriage ; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up the lawn .. at length the parsonage was discernible .. lydia was a stout , well - grown girl of fifteen , with a fine complexion and good - humoured countenance ; a favourite with her mother , whose affection had brought her into public at an early age .. mrs .. hurst thought the same , and added , " she has nothing , in short , to recommend her , but being an excellent walker .. " lizzy ," said he , " i was going to look for you ; come into my room ." she followed him thither ; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her , was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held .. towards _him_ i have been kinder than towards myself ." elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection , but its meaning did not escape , nor was it likely to conciliate her .. philips a very attentive listener , whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard , and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could .. what pin - money , what jewels , what carriages you will have !. his sisters were fine women , with an air of decided fashion .. last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me , because it would be imprudent ; and now , because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds , you want to find out that he is mercenary ." " if you will only tell me what sort of girl miss king is , i shall know what to think ." " she is a very good kind of girl , i believe .. hurst and miss bingley .. her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman , and he was thinking of her with some complacency , when thus accosted by miss bingley , " i can guess the subject of your reverie ." " i should imagine not ." " you are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner -- in such society ; and indeed i am quite of your opinion .. " oh !. bingley , and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to , made her perhaps almost as happy as jane .. she had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman ; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood , nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for a week or two , to visit his relations .. oh !. wickham ' s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be .. pray , how _violent was_ mr .. collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure , and elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming , when she found herself so affectionately received .. gardiner were engaged with their children , was now put an end to , by the approach of the whole party .. it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement .. darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband .. she was still very poorly , and elizabeth would not quit her at all , till late in the evening , when she had the comfort of seeing her asleep , and when it appeared to her rather right than pleasant that she should go down stairs herself .. " from the very beginning , from the first moment i may almost say , of my acquaintance with you , your manners impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance , your conceit , and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others , were such as to form that ground - work of disapprobation , on which succeeding events have built so immoveable a dislike ; and i had not known you a month before i felt that you were the last man in the world whom i could ever be prevailed on to marry ." " you have said quite enough , madam .. elizabeth was pleased to find , that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend , for , though jane had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world , she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice her against him .. my dear hill , have you heard the good news ?. gardiner ' s door , jane was at a drawing - room window watching their arrival ; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them , and elizabeth , looking earnestly in her face , was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever .. my uncle and aunt and i were to go together ; and the others were to meet us at the church .. if such goodness does not make her miserable now , she will never deserve to be happy !. the next morning , as she was going down stairs , she was met by her father , who came out of his library with a letter in his hand .. the satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in great britain to be her husband , might then have rested in its proper place .. her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense .. we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance .. had elizabeth been at leisure to be idle , she would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as herself ; but she had her share of business as well as her aunt , and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends in lambton , with false excuses for their sudden departure .. adieu .. he is the handsomest young man that ever was seen !" wickham , lydia , were all forgotten .. elizabeth , as they drove along , watched for the first appearance of pemberley woods with some perturbation ; and when at length they turned in at the lodge , her spirits were in a high flutter .. she had already learnt that lady catherine was still in the country .. bennet exceedingly .. the church _ought_ to have been my profession -- i was brought up for the church , and i should at this time have been in possession of a most valuable living , had it pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now ." " indeed !" " yes -- the late mr .. and now do , when you get to town , find them out , wherever they may be ; and if they are not married already , _make_ them marry .. collins returned most punctually on the monday fortnight , but his reception at longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction .. gardiner was a sensible , gentleman - like man , greatly superior to his sister , as well by nature as education .. mr .. elizabeth tried to be diverted by them ; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame .. they have not the same force or rapidity , and do not produce the same expression .. chapter v .. darcy than they had before any idea of ; it was evident that he was very much in love with her .. " indeed , you are mistaken , madam .. you will not be fit to be seen when you get there ." " i shall be very fit to see jane -- which is all i want ." " is this a hint to me , lizzy ," said her father , " to send for the horses ?" " no , indeed .. darcy changed colour ; but the emotion was short , and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she continued .. till elizabeth entered the drawing - room at netherfield and looked in vain for mr .. i take up my pen again to do , what i have just told you i would not , but circumstances are such , that i cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here , as soon as possible .. she is the most beautiful creature i ever beheld !. after a song or two , and before she could reply to the entreaties of several that she would sing again , she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her sister mary , who having , in consequence of being the only plain one in the family , worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments , was always impatient for display .. if there were any one , that one could apply to , with a probability of gaining such a clue as that , it might be of essential consequence .. would to heaven that any thing could be either said or done on my part , that might offer consolation to such distress .-- but i will not torment you with vain wishes , which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks .. mrs .. " very well -- and this offer of marriage you have refused ?" " i have , sir ." " very well .. how soon any other wishes introduced themselves i can hardly tell , but i believe in about half an hour after i had seen you ." he then told her of georgiana ' s delight in her acquaintance , and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption ; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption , she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from derbyshire in quest of her sister , had been formed before he quitted the inn , and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there , had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend .. " he only told me , what i have now told you ." elizabeth made no answer , and walked on , her heart swelling with indignation .. such a countenance , such manners !. gardiner this moment , on business that cannot be delayed ; i have not an instant to lose ." " good god !. his countenance , voice , and manner , had established him at once in the possession of every virtue .. but i confess they would have no charms for _me_ .. but she is perfectly amiable , and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies ." " has she been presented ?. elizabeth looked expressively at lydia ; but she , who never heard nor saw any thing of which she chose to be insensible , gaily continued , " oh !. the elder miss bennets alone were still able to eat , drink , and sleep , and pursue the usual course of their employments .. he did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle , and therefore readily postponed seeing him , till after the departure of the former .. she is a very headstrong foolish girl , and does not know her own interest ; but i will _make_ her know it ." " pardon me for interrupting you , madam ," cried mr .. bennet , he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon .. after pausing on this point a considerable while , she once more continued to read .. as yet , she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard , nor of its reasonableness .. though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family , they did not attempt to oppose it , for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her tongue before the servants , while they waited at table , and judged it better that _one_ only of the household , and the one whom they could most trust , should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the subject .. darcy .. bennet could hardly comprehend it .. it was evident that she was much better acquainted with mr .. no .-- i am sure we never read the same , or not with the same feelings ." " i am sorry you think so ; but if that be the case , there can at least be no want of subject .-- we may compare our different opinions ." " no -- i cannot talk of books in a ball - room ; my head is always full of something else ." " the _present_ always occupies you in such scenes -- does it ?" said he , with a look of doubt .. but i am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general .. nay , when i read a letter of his , i cannot help giving him the preference even over wickham , much as i value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son - in - law .. darcy ' s regard ." " mr .. since such were her feelings , it only remained , he thought , to secure and expedite a marriage , which , in his very first conversation with wickham , he easily learnt , had never been _his_ design .. i am so grieved for him .. she followed him with her eyes , envied every one to whom he spoke , had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee ; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly !. chapter viii .. he has been here this half hour , and master has had a letter ." away ran the girls , too eager to get in to have time for speech .. collins and lizzy .. darcy has no defect .. it does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl , whom he was violently in love with only a few days before ." " but that expression of ' violently in love ' is so hackneyed , so doubtful , so indefinite , that it gives me very little idea .. his name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece ; and the kind of half - expectation which mrs .. " i know little of the game , at present ," said he , " but i shall be glad to improve myself , for in my situation of life ----" mrs .. darcy himself ; but , whenever she did catch a glimpse , she saw an expression of general complaisance , and in all that he said , she heard an accent so far removed from hauteur or disdain of his companions , as convinced her that the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed , however temporary its existence might prove , had at least outlived one day .. howsoever that may be , you are grievously to be pitied , in which opinion i am not only joined by mrs .. i knew it myself , as it was known to miss bingley , but her brother is even yet ignorant of it .-- that they might have met without ill consequence , is perhaps probable ;-- but his regard did not appear to me enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger .-- perhaps this concealment , this disguise , was beneath me .-- it is done , however , and it was done for the best .-- on this subject i have nothing more to say , no other apology to offer .. bennet ' s invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter .. i wonder he does not marry , to secure a lasting convenience of that kind .. bennet ," said she , " it is very hard to think that charlotte lucas should ever be mistress of this house , that i should be forced to make way for _her_ , and live to see her take my place in it !" " my dear , do not give way to such gloomy thoughts .. " don ' t keep coughing so , kitty , for heaven ' s sake !. what is to become of us !. bingley had danced with her twice , and she had been distinguished by his sisters .. darcy , though she had not before known its extent , agreed equally well with his own words .. elizabeth saw what he was doing , and at the first convenient pause , turned to him with an arch smile , and said , " you mean to frighten me , mr .. he had found the law a most unprofitable study , and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained , if i would present him to the living in question -- of which he trusted there could be little doubt , as he was well assured that i had no other person to provide for , and i could not have forgotten my revered father ' s intentions .. chapter v .. have not you always hated him ?" how earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable , her expressions more moderate !. she then yawned again , threw aside her book , and cast her eyes round the room in quest of some amusement ; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to miss bennet , she turned suddenly towards him and said , " by the bye , charles , are you really serious in meditating a dance at netherfield ?-- i would advise you , before you determine on it , to consult the wishes of the present party ; i am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a pleasure ." " if you mean darcy ," cried her brother , " he may go to bed , if he chuses , before it begins -- but as for the ball , it is quite a settled thing ; and as soon as nicholls has made white soup enough i shall send round my cards ." " i should like balls infinitely better ," she replied , " if they were carried on in a different manner ; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting .. but i ought to beg his pardon , for i have no right to suppose that bingley was the person meant .. the subjection in which his father had brought him up , had given him originally great humility of manner , but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self - conceit of a weak head , living in retirement , and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity .. bennet deigned not to make any reply ; but unable to contain herself , began scolding one of her daughters .. chapter xix .. she cared for none of her friends , she wanted no help of his , she would not hear of leaving wickham .. for about three years i heard little of him ; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him , he applied to me again by letter for the presentation .. " now ," said she , " that this first meeting is over , i feel perfectly easy .. " i do not pretend to regret any thing i shall leave in hertfordshire , except your society , my dearest friend ; but we will hope at some future period , to enjoy many returns of the delightful intercourse we have known , and in the mean while may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence .. on reaching the house , they were shewn through the hall into the saloon , whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer .. their eyes were immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers , and nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed , or a really new muslin in a shop window , could recal them .. where does discretion end , and avarice begin ?. on being made acquainted with the present mr .. give my love to colonel forster , i hope you will drink to our good journey .. wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of mr .. the supposition did not pain her .. oh !. her coming there was the most unfortunate , the most ill - judged thing in the world !. it was owing to him , to his reserve , and want of proper consideration , that wickham ' s character had been so misunderstood , and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was .. but really , ma ' am , i think it would be very hard upon younger sisters , that they should not have their share of society and amusement because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry early .-- the last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth , as the first .. bennet , accompanied by her two youngest girls , reached netherfield soon after the family breakfast .. we can all _begin_ freely -- a slight preference is natural enough ; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement .. mr .. he is gone to my father already .. elizabeth immediately began playing again .. well , monday morning came , and i was in such a fuss !. could there be finer symptoms ?. even elizabeth began to fear -- not that bingley was indifferent -- but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away .. mr .. heaven and earth !-- of what are you thinking ?. collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune , which charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at rosings the next day .. no , never .. mr .. annesley , a genteel , agreeable - looking woman , whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse , proved her to be more truly well bred than either of the others ; and between her and mrs .. bennet ' s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two thousand a year , which , unfortunately for his daughters , was entailed in default of heirs male , on a distant relation ; and their mother ' s fortune , though ample for her situation in life , could but ill supply the deficiency of his .. when first he entered the corps , she was ready enough to admire him ; but so we all were .. from what i can collect , he left derbyshire only one day after ourselves , and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them .. chapter xv .. seriously , i would have you be on your guard .. " while mary is adjusting her ideas ," he continued , " let us return to mr .. but as to your other objection , i am afraid it will hardly hold good .. her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea , and you may imagine that i am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies .. and in the first place , let us hear what has happened to you all , since you went away .. elizabeth , after slightly surveying it , went to a window to enjoy its prospect .. they walked on , without knowing in what direction .. when the gentlemen rose to go away , mrs .. i always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction , and nobody but a governess can give it .. and it is the more to be lamented , because there is reason to suppose , as my dear charlotte informs me , that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter , has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence , though , at the same time , for the consolation of yourself and mrs .. darcy !" thought she .. bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had brought on , in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice .. bennet all amazement , though flattered by having a guest of such high importance , received her with the utmost politeness .. her astonishment , however , was extreme ; and continually was she repeating , " why is he so altered ?. gardiner , a letter arrived for their father , from a different quarter , from mr .. darcy and herself .. bennet .-- they had several children .. the first mentioned was , that , regardless of the sentiments of either , i had detached mr .. it was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat , and it was now some weeks since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour .. darcy bowed .. your daughter elizabeth , it is presumed , will not long bear the name of bennet , after her elder sister has resigned it , and the chosen partner of her fate , may be reasonably looked up to , as one of the most illustrious personages in this land ." " can you possibly guess , lizzy , who is meant by this ?" " this young gentleman is blessed in a peculiar way , with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire ,-- splendid property , noble kindred , and extensive patronage .. chapter ix .. the officer was the very mr .. " i knew ," said he , " that what i wrote must give you pain , but it was necessary .. this son was to join in cutting off the entail , as soon as he should be of age , and the widow and younger children would by that means be provided for .. stop me whilst you can ." " you persist , then , in supposing his sisters influence him ." " yes , in conjunction with his friend ." " i cannot believe it .. she would be in nobody ' s way , you know , in that part of the house ." mr .. her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone .. his anxiety for jane was evident , and his attentions to herself most pleasing , and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others .. it was some consolation to think that his visit to rosings was to end on the day after the next , and a still greater , that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with jane again , and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her spirits , by all that affection could do .. " no ; but it must be done soon ." most earnestly did she then intreat him to lose no more time before he wrote .. _i_ should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me ." chapter xviii .. one came from her books , and the other from her toilette .. but you do not know _all_ .. our importance , our respectability in the world , must be affected by the wild volatility , the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark lydia ' s character .. no thanks to his gallantry for that .. mr .. chapter xv .. you take delight in vexing me .. collins pointed out , with a rapturous air , the fine proportion and finished ornaments , they followed the servants through an anti - chamber , to the room where lady catherine , her daughter , and mrs .. such a disappointment !. he begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter , of which it seems he has been told , by some of the good - natured , gossiping lucases .. collins , she thought with equal certainty , and with considerable , though not equal , pleasure .. collins well ." " yes , very well .. " i am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed !" cried jane .. elizabeth jumped out ; and , after giving each of them an hasty kiss , hurried into the vestibule , where jane , who came running down stairs from her mother ' s apartment , immediately met her .. " we have not quite determined how far it shall carry us ," said mrs .. yet , indeed , i am in earnest .. she had never heard of him before his entrance into the ---- shire militia , in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man , who , on meeting him accidentally in town , had there renewed a slight acquaintance .. it is very hard to think that she might have been mr .. bingley before , expressed to her sister how very much she admired him .. not handsome enough to dance with !. it was , on the contrary , exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes ; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved him , as now , when all love must be vain .. darcy is not in the least to blame , that he cannot bear to hear george wickham mentioned , and that though my brother thought he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers , he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way .. i am joined with him in the guardianship of miss darcy ." " are you , indeed ?. bennet , " and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy .. collins , sat for some time without speaking to any body .. she must own that she was tired of great houses ; after going over so many , she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains .. but in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend , where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment , should you think ill of that person for complying with the desire , without waiting to be argued into it ?" " will it not be advisable , before we proceed on this subject , to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request , as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties ?" " by all means ," cried bingley ; " let us hear all the particulars , not forgetting their comparative height and size ; for that will have more weight in the argument , miss bennet , than you may be aware of .. she approached , and saw the likeness of mr .. it was not till the afternoon , when he joined them at tea , that elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject ; and then , on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured , he replied , " say nothing of that .. darcy , and reading in her neighbours ' looks their equal amazement in beholding it .. she looked at her father to entreat his interference , lest mary should be singing all night .. i thought miss elizabeth bennet looked remarkably well , when she came into the room this morning .. " of a fine , stout , healthy love it may .. bingley ' s continued absence .. when her mother went up to her dressing - room at night , she followed her , and made the important communication .. elizabeth was disgusted , and even miss bennet was shocked .. about a year ago , she was taken from school , and an establishment formed for her in london ; and last summer she went with the lady who presided over it , to ramsgate ; and thither also went mr .. the motive professed , was his conviction of its being owing to himself that wickham ' s worthlessness had not been so well known , as to make it impossible for any young woman of character , to love or confide in him .. miss bennet had slept ill , and though up , was very feverish and not well enough to leave her room .. bennet ' s being quite unable to sit alone .. this he considered sufficient encouragement , and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her , immediately followed .. " how strange this is !. chapter ii .. bennet wondered at their coming , and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble , and was sure jane would have caught cold again .-- but their father , though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure , was really glad to see them ; he had felt their importance in the family circle .. darcy , she saw on looking up that colonel fitzwilliam was meeting her .. i owe all that i know of it , to another , not to you ." elizabeth told her the motives of her secrecy .. i am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place .. i enquired after their brother , of course .. collins ' s conversation to herself .. georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of elizabeth ; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm , at her lively , sportive , manner of talking to her brother .. oh !. " it must be something particular , to take him there at this time of year ." " undoubtedly .. i know not in what manner , under what form of falsehood he has imposed on you ; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at .. gardiner , after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family , told her that he meant to be in london the very next day , and would assist mr .. when at length they arose to take leave , mrs .. jane should therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his attention .. by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg - tm electronic work , you indicate that you have read , understand , agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property ( trademark / copyright ) agreement .. he certainly looked at her friend a great deal , but the expression of that look was disputable .. they will then join his regiment , unless they are first invited to longbourn ; and i understand from mrs .. the path just admitted three .. i should be glad to take a turn in it , if you will favour me with your company ." " go , my dear ," cried her mother , " and shew her ladyship about the different walks .. bennet , " to walk to oakham mount this morning .. many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory .. she dreaded seeing wickham again , and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible .. stupid men are the only ones worth knowing , after all ." " take care , lizzy ; that speech savours strongly of disappointment ." before they were separated by the conclusion of the play , she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer .. if they believed him attached to me , they would not try to part us ; if he were so , they could not succeed .. the easy assurance of the young couple , indeed , was enough to provoke him .. in the afternoon , the two elder miss bennets were able to be for half an hour by themselves ; and elizabeth instantly availed herself of the opportunity of making many enquiries , which jane was equally eager to satisfy .. it was to this effect : " since writing the above , dearest lizzy , something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature ; but i am afraid of alarming you -- be assured that we are all well .. what could be the meaning of it ?-- it was impossible to imagine ; it was impossible not to long to know .. collins on his return highly gratified mrs .. he has _some_ friends , though perhaps not so many as he deserves ." elizabeth , who knew this to be levelled at mr .. i congratulate her .. robinson ' s asking him how he liked our meryton assemblies , and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room , and _which_ he thought the prettiest ?. she could think of nothing but of mr .. never , even in the company of his dear friends at netherfield , or his dignified relations at rosings , had she seen him so desirous to please , so free from self - consequence , or unbending reserve as now , when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours , and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed , would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of netherfield and rosings .. that lady i suppose is your mother ." elizabeth replied very concisely that she was .. bingley was quite uncomfortable ; his sisters declared that they were miserable .. " of what are you talking ?" " of mr .. darcy .. she could not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his arrival in hertfordshire ; and she began to fear that he might be always flying about from one place to another , and never settled at netherfield as he ought to be .. chapter iii .. " do you consider the forms of introduction , and the stress that is laid on them , as nonsense ?. say that urgent business calls us home immediately .. their visits to mrs .. there is not a bit of fish to be got to - day .. collins ' s fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to elizabeth within the last day or two ; but that charlotte could encourage him , seemed almost as far from possibility as that she could encourage him herself , and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum , and she could not help crying out , " engaged to mr .. accordingly , when she retired at night , she asked the chambermaid whether pemberley were not a very fine place , what was the name of its proprietor , and with no little alarm , whether the family were down for the summer .. elizabeth most thankfully consented , and a servant was dispatched to longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay , and bring back a supply of clothes .. the idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new , yet i think it is well expressed ." to catherine and lydia , neither the letter nor its writer were in any degree interesting .. mr .. most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error , and seek to clear one , without involving the other .. gardiner and the children were to remain in hertfordshire a few days longer , as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces .. bennet ; and , as he spoke , he left the room , fatigued with the raptures of his wife .. every thing that is charming !. " i often think ," said she , " that there is nothing so bad as parting with one ' s friends .. had i but explained some part of it only -- some part of what i learnt , to my own family !. it was painful , exceedingly painful , to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return .. she got up , and ran out of the room ; and returned no more , till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining - parlour .. she answered with equal indifference and brevity , and the other said no more .. wickham has created , a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character .. she certainly did not hate him .. the expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity .. it was possible , and sometimes she thought it probable , that his affection might be re - animated , and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of jane ' s attractions .. in vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else , and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room .. mrs .. " i assure you there is quite as much of _that_ going on in the country as in town ." every body was surprised ; and darcy , after looking at her for a moment , turned silently away .. sir william and lady lucas were speedily applied to for their consent ; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity .. the following sentence , with active links to , or other immediate access to , the full project gutenberg - tm license must appear prominently whenever any copy of a project gutenberg - tm work ( any work on which the phrase " project gutenberg " appears , or with which the phrase " project gutenberg " is associated ) is accessed , displayed , performed , viewed , copied or distributed : this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever .. " the conduct of neither , if strictly examined , will be irreproachable ; but since then , we have both , i hope , improved in civility ." " i cannot be so easily reconciled to myself .. mr .. was it merely to ride to longbourn and be embarrassed ?. more thoughtfulness , and less anxiety to please than when they last met , were plainly expressed .. collins , and i will never see you again if you _do_ ." elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning ; but mrs .. they then went away .. mary , however , continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them .. and i do not think it of light importance that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards every body , especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment .. " what can be the meaning of this !" said charlotte , as soon as he was gone .. you will be censured , slighted , and despised , by every one connected with him .. " and then when you go away , you may leave one or two of my sisters behind you ; and i dare say i shall get husbands for them before the winter is over ." " i thank you for my share of the favour ," said elizabeth ; " but i do not particularly like your way of getting husbands ." their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them .. i thought too ill of him , to invite him to pemberley , or admit his society in town .. miss bingley offered her the carriage , and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it , when jane testified such concern in parting with her , that miss bingley was obliged to convert the offer of the chaise into an invitation to remain at netherfield for the present .. chapter xix .. at present we have nothing to guide us .. my watchfulness has been effectual ; and though i should certainly be a more interesting object to all my acquaintance , were i distractedly in love with him , i cannot say that i regret my comparative insignificance .. elizabeth would not observe her ; and when at last kitty did , she very innocently said , " what is the matter mamma ?. her brother ' s recommendation was enough to ensure her favour : his judgment could not err , and he had spoken in such terms of elizabeth , as to leave georgiana without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable .. james ' s ?" " never , sir ." " do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place ?" " it is a compliment which i never pay to any place if i can avoid it ." " you have a house in town , i conclude ?" mr .. if , indeed , it should be so !. bennet could not give her consent , or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings , though she talked to bingley of nothing else , for half an hour ; and when mr .. what ' s his name .. lady catherine herself says that in point of true beauty , miss de bourgh is far superior to the handsomest of her sex ; because there is that in her features which marks the young woman of distinguished birth .. at last she recollected that she had been travelling , and they talked of matlock and dove dale with great perseverance .. my object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself , with due consideration for the advantage of all your family , and if my _manner_ has been at all reprehensible , i here beg leave to apologise ." chapter xxi .. but do not be cast down .. their manners are not equal to his ." " certainly not ; at first .. philips , protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses at whist , enumerating all the dishes at supper , and repeatedly fearing that he crouded his cousins , had more to say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at longbourn house .. but when they see , as i trust they will , that their brother is happy with me , they will learn to be contented , and we shall be on good terms again ; though we can never be what we once were to each other ." " that is the most unforgiving speech ," said elizabeth , " that i ever heard you utter .. mrs .. collins could be forgotten , there was really a great air of comfort throughout , and by charlotte ' s evident enjoyment of it , elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten .. human nature is so prone to fall into it !. he sat with them above an hour , and was in remarkably good spirits .. darcy had brought with him a colonel fitzwilliam , the younger son of his uncle , lord ---- and to the great surprise of all the party , when mr .. but it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule ." " such as vanity and pride ." " yes , vanity is a weakness indeed .. people _did_ say , you meant to quit the place entirely at michaelmas ; but , however , i hope it is not true .. she perfectly remembered every thing that had passed in conversation between wickham and herself , in their first evening at mr .. mrs .. their father then went to the library to write , and the girls walked into the breakfast - room .. and mrs .. but she is nothing to me now .. copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change .. darcy chose to doubt it -- or to treat it as a merely conditional recommendation , and to assert that i had forfeited all claim to it by extravagance , imprudence , in short any thing or nothing .. see <NUM> - h . htm or <NUM> - h . zip : ( <URL> ) or ( <URL> ) images of the original pages are available through internet archive .. after amusing himself some time with their curiosity , he thus explained .. for forty years , he produced and distributed project gutenberg - tm ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support .. jane resolutely kept her place at the table ; but elizabeth , to satisfy her mother , went to the window -- she looked ,-- she saw mr .. bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted , the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to meryton ; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing , as they entered the drawing - room , that mr .. bennet half opened the door and called out , " lizzy , my dear , i want to speak with you ." elizabeth was forced to go .. did you see him while you were at lambton ?. " i told you the other day , of his infamous behaviour to mr .. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage ; he shook his head when i expressed my hopes , and said he feared w .. i am perfectly satisfied .. kitty simpered and smiled , and hoped her turn was coming soon .. all was acknowledged , and half the night spent in conversation .. may i ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment , or are the result of previous study ?" " they arise chiefly from what is passing at the time , and though i sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions , i always wish to give them as unstudied an air as possible ." mr .. secondly , that i am convinced it will add very greatly to my happiness ; and thirdly -- which perhaps i ought to have mentioned earlier , that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble lady whom i have the honour of calling patroness .. gardiner , and miss bennet , to dinner at pemberley , before they left the country .. i hope your plans in favour of the ---- shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood ." " oh !. there can be no occasion for your going so soon .. darcy ' s behaviour astonished and vexed her .. i am not equal to it .. the park was very large , and contained great variety of ground .. " i do not get on at all .. miss bingley moved with alacrity to the piano - forte , and after a polite request that elizabeth would lead the way , which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived , she seated herself .. sir william did not say much .. collins had been taken in ; thirdly , she trusted that they would never be happy together ; and fourthly , that the match might be broken off .. to be sure , you knew no actual good of me -- but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love ." " was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to jane , while she was ill at netherfield ?" " dearest jane !. hart was the originator of the project gutenberg - tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone .. they are young in the ways of the world , and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to live on , as well as the plain ." chapter iv .. mrs .. in short , i will do my best ." " perhaps it will be as well , if you discourage his coming here so very often .. philips ' throwing up the parlour window , and loudly seconding the invitation .. i can remember no symptom of affection on either side ; and had any thing of the kind been perceptible , you must be aware that ours is not a family , on which it could be thrown away .. the girls grieved over such a number of ladies ; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing , that instead of twelve , he had brought only six with him from london , his five sisters and a cousin .. mrs .. mr .. women fancy admiration means more than it does ." " and men take care that they should ." " if it is designedly done , they cannot be justified ; but i have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine ." " i am far from attributing any part of mr .. a fortunate chance had recommended him to lady catherine de bourgh when the living of hunsford was vacant ; and the respect which he felt for her high rank , and his veneration for her as his patroness , mingling with a very good opinion of himself , of his authority as a clergyman , and his rights as a rector , made him altogether a mixture of pride and obsequiousness , self - importance and humility .. yet he knew to the contrary himself .. but in matters of greater weight , i may suffer from the want of money .. collins in time ." the situation of affairs in the longbourn family could not be long a secret .. she was confident of having performed her duty , and to fret over unavoidable evils , or augment them by anxiety , was no part of her disposition .. collins , was a most humiliating picture !-- and to the pang of a friend disgracing herself and sunk in her esteem , was added the distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot she had chosen .. certain it is , that the living became vacant two years ago , exactly as i was of an age to hold it , and that it was given to another man ; and no less certain is it , that i cannot accuse myself of having really done any thing to deserve to lose it .. hurst ." her sister made not the smallest objection , and the piano - forte was opened , and darcy , after a few moments recollection , was not sorry for it .. mrs .. collins , and the gaieties of their intercourse with rosings .. however , i did not hear above one word in ten , for i was thinking , you may suppose , of my dear wickham .. collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden , which was large and well laid out , and to the cultivation of which he attended himself .. " mr .. for what do we live , but to make sport for our neighbours , and laugh at them in our turn ?" " oh !" cried elizabeth , " i am excessively diverted .. lydia has no brothers to step forward ; and he might imagine , from my father ' s behaviour , from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family , that _he_ would do as little , and think as little about it , as any father could do , in such a matter ." " but can you think that lydia is so lost to every thing but love of him , as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage ?" " it does seem , and it is most shocking indeed ," replied elizabeth , with tears in her eyes , " that a sister ' s sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt .. it was many months since she had mentioned his name to elizabeth ; but now , as soon as they were alone together , she said , " i saw you look at me to - day , lizzy , when my aunt told us of the present report ; and i know i appeared distressed .. i will put on my things in a moment .. we have reason to imagine that his aunt , lady catherine de bourgh , does not look on the match with a friendly eye ." " _mr .. there are few people whom i really love , and still fewer of whom i think well .. you blamed me for coming ?" " no indeed ; i felt nothing but surprise ." " your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed by you .. lydia ' s intention of walking to meryton was not forgotten ; every sister except mary agreed to go with her ; and mr .. to the civil enquiries which then poured in , and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of mr .. i should be sorry to think so ill of him , in the very beginning of our relationship ." " ten thousand pounds !. " what a letter is this , to be written at such a moment .. _i_ did for you .. it gives me pain to speak ill of a darcy .. i shall never be quite happy till i have been all round the park .. as they walked home , elizabeth related to jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen ; but though jane would have defended either or both , had they appeared to be wrong , she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister .. mrs .. he did look at it and into it for half an hour , was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms , satisfied with what the owner said in its praise , and took it immediately .. allowing for the common demands of the game , mr .. his cousin was as absurd as he had hoped , and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment , maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance , and except in an occasional glance at elizabeth , requiring no partner in his pleasure .. mrs .. with an air of indifference he soon afterwards added , " how long did you say that he was at rosings ?" " nearly three weeks ." " and you saw him frequently ?" " yes , almost every day ." " his manners are very different from his cousin ' s ." " yes , very different .. if she is half as sharp as her mother , she is saving enough .. you must know that i am thinking of his marrying one of them ." " is that his design in settling here ?" " design !. now be sincere ; did you admire me for my impertinence ?" " for the liveliness of your mind , i did ." " you may as well call it impertinence at once .. if your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless , you cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin ; and that there may be the possibility of consulting him , i shall endeavour to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning .. has she any family ?" " she has one only daughter , the heiress of rosings , and of very extensive property ." " ah !" cried mrs .. his attentions to miss king were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary ; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes , but his eagerness to grasp at any thing .. well , but now for my news : it is about dear wickham ; too good for the waiter , is not it ?. his pride never deserts him ; but with the rich , he is liberal - minded , just , sincere , rational , honourable , and perhaps agreeable ,-- allowing something for fortune and figure ." the whist party soon afterwards breaking up , the players gathered round the other table , and mr .. kitty , run down and order the carriage .. bennet , through the assistance of servants , contrived to have the earliest tidings of it , that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on her side , might be as long as it could .. there was no arguing upon such a project .. i knew it to be a most respectable , agreeable corps , and my friend denny tempted me farther by his account of their present quarters , and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintance meryton had procured them .. and so , darcy did every thing ; made up the match , gave the money , paid the fellow ' s debts , and got him his commission !. for my part , i am determined never to speak of it again to anybody .. but nothing can be done ; i know very well that nothing can be done .. young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these ; but i think i may defy even _your_ sagacity , to discover the name of your admirer .. the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all <NUM> states of the united states .. never intended to go there , or to marry lydia at all , which was repeated to colonel f .. " you begin to comprehend me , do you ?" cried he , turning towards her .. lydia -- the humiliation , the misery , she was bringing on them all , soon swallowed up every private care ; and covering her face with her handkerchief , elizabeth was soon lost to every thing else ; and , after a pause of several minutes , was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voice of her companion , who , in a manner , which though it spoke compassion , spoke likewise restraint , said , " i am afraid you have been long desiring my absence , nor have i any thing to plead in excuse of my stay , but real , though unavailing , concern .. she became jealous of his esteem , when she could no longer hope to be benefited by it .. bennet had very often wished , before this period of his life , that , instead of spending his whole income , he had laid by an annual sum , for the better provision of his children , and of his wife , if she survived him .. darcy !" repeated elizabeth , in utter amazement .. mr .. darcy returned within the stated time .. bennet instantly answered , " oh dear !-- yes -- certainly .-- i am sure lizzy will be very happy -- i am sure she can have no objection .-- come , kitty , i want you up stairs ." and gathering her work together , she was hastening away , when elizabeth called out , " dear ma ' am , do not go .-- i beg you will not go .-- mr .. you are lucky in having such a master ." " yes , sir , i know i am .. " he is certainly a good brother ," said elizabeth , as she walked towards one of the windows .. perhaps i am not doing her justice .. bennet came from it .. the same anxiety to get them by themselves , was visible again in the evening .. bennet , and we shall very soon settle it with her , i am sure ." she would not give him time to reply , but hurrying instantly to her husband , called out as she entered the library , " oh !. " my dear , dear lydia !" she cried : " this is delightful indeed !-- she will be married !-- i shall see her again !-- she will be married at sixteen !-- my good , kind brother !-- i knew how it would be -- i knew he would manage every thing .. darcy is over , i presume ," said miss bingley ;--" and pray what is the result ?" " i am perfectly convinced by it that mr .. " and i wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit ; but i am an idle fellow , and though i have not many , i have more than i ever look into ." elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room .. she shared in their attendance on mrs .. why should they not go on to scotland , if that had been the case ?" " in the first place ," replied mr .. let me do it without farther loss of time .. he could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood ; and his civilities were worn out like his information .. darcy ' s conduct in it less than infamous , was capable of a turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole .. darcy ?" " as much as i ever wish to be ," cried elizabeth warmly ,--" i have spent four days in the same house with him , and i think him very disagreeable ." " i have no right to give _my_ opinion ," said wickham , " as to his being agreeable or otherwise .. hurst and miss bingley ; and though the mother was found to be intolerable and the younger sisters not worth speaking to , a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ , was expressed towards the two eldest .. but so they always are .. he does not want abilities .. she was going to the butcher ' s , she told me , on purpose to order in some meat on wednesday , and she has got three couple of ducks , just fit to be killed ." miss bennet had not been able to hear of his coming , without changing colour .. collins arrived on tuesday , addressed to their father , and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelvemonth ' s abode in the family might have prompted .. collins seemed neither in need of encouragement , nor inclined to be silent himself .. the comfort to _her_ , of the regiment ' s approaching removal , was indeed beyond expression .. bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing - room again , and when tea was over , glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies .. her heart was divided between concern for her sister , and resentment against all the others .. mr .. collins was settled _near_ her family ." " it is a proof of your own attachment to hertfordshire .. and you saw the old housekeeper , i suppose ?. she saw instantly that her cousin ' s manners were not altered by his marriage ; his formal civility was just what it had been , and he detained her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his enquiries after all her family .. bingley and jane !" was a wonder which introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs .. very nonsensical to come at all !. for my part , mr .. and his answering immediately to the last question -- oh !. bennet was privileged to whisper it to mrs .. lizzy , why am i thus singled from my family , and blessed above them all !. lady catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us , which becomes herself and daughter .. their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above - mentioned ; and while mr .. i knew you would be wishing me joy ." " nay , if you are so serious about it , i shall consider the matter as absolutely settled .. bingley was ready , georgiana was eager , and darcy determined , to be pleased .. she was ashamed to think how much .. " we may as well leave them by themselves you know ;" said her mother as soon as she was in the hall .. wickham ; no , i certainly am not .. your sister i also watched .-- her look and manners were open , cheerful and engaging as ever , but without any symptom of peculiar regard , and i remained convinced from the evening ' s scrutiny , that though she received his attentions with pleasure , she did not invite them by any participation of sentiment .-- if _you_ have not been mistaken here , _i_ must have been in an error .. but , lizzy , you look as if you did not enjoy it .. of course , we hope that you will support the project gutenberg - tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg - tm works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg - tm name associated with the work .. elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation .. every disposition of the ground was good ; and she looked on the whole scene , the river , the trees scattered on its banks , and the winding of the valley , as far as she could trace it , with delight .. bingley .. she was teazed by mr .. i was so vexed to see him stand up with her ; but , however , he did not admire her at all : indeed , nobody can , you know ; and he seemed quite struck with jane as she was going down the dance .. darcy was writing , and miss bingley , seated near him , was watching the progress of his letter , and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister .. " how nicely we are crammed in !" cried lydia .. elizabeth said nothing , but it gratified her exceedingly ; the compliment must be all for herself .. bingley did not do justice to his own disposition .. you know not , you can scarcely conceive , how they have tortured me ;-- though it was some time , i confess , before i was reasonable enough to allow their justice ." " i was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression .. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary , compressed , marked up , nonproprietary or proprietary form , including any word processing or hypertext form .. bingley her sister ' s being in town .. " there _is_ something a little stately in him to be sure ," replied her aunt , " but it is confined to his air , and is not unbecoming .. long told me last night that he sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips ." " are you quite sure , ma ' am ?-- is not there a little mistake ?" said jane .--" i certainly saw mr .. it was very little less .. he is a gentleman ; i am a gentleman ' s daughter ; so far we are equal ." " true .. but why mr .. bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage before tuesday ; and in her postscript it was added , that if mr .. elizabeth went away with her head full of him .. on the contrary , there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks .. he answered me with the utmost civility , and even paid me the compliment of saying , that he was so well convinced of lady catherine ' s discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily .. bennet ?" " yes , or i will never see her again ." " an unhappy alternative is before you , elizabeth .. bennet spent the morning together , as had been agreed on .. bingley had been a most delightful friend ; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable ; but she checked herself .. every thing nourishes what is strong already .. i always had a value for him .. i think she will be pleased with the hermitage ." elizabeth obeyed , and running into her own room for her parasol , attended her noble guest down stairs .. colonel fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the readiness and ease of a well - bred man , and talked very pleasantly ; but his cousin , after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to mrs .. i thank you for explaining it so fully .. darcy , she left elizabeth to walk by herself .. as soon as jane had read mr .. " and that ," said mrs .. darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it ?" " upon my word i cannot exactly explain the matter , darcy must speak for himself ." " you expect me to account for opinions which you chuse to call mine , but which i have never acknowledged .. she hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man ; and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her , was still more strange .. darcy is impatient to see his sister , and to confess the truth , _we_ are scarcely less eager to meet her again .. she complained bitterly of all this to her husband .. your mother must have been quite a slave to your education ." elizabeth could hardly help smiling , as she assured her that had not been the case .. who could have done less for her ?. we shall have no peace at longbourn if lydia does not go to brighton .. wickham appeared kitty and lydia would certainly have continued the occupation , but unluckily no one passed the windows now except a few of the officers , who in comparison with the stranger , were become " stupid , disagreeable fellows ." some of them were to dine with the philipses the next day , and their aunt promised to make her husband call on mr .. i shall send this by express , that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer .. collins .. there is no talk of his coming to netherfield again in the summer ; and i have enquired of every body too , who is likely to know ." " i do not believe that he will ever live at netherfield any more ." " oh , well !. bennet ," replied his wife , " how can you be so tiresome !. darcy before they had known any thing of the matter .. she was afraid of talking longer of his friend ; and , having nothing else to say , was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him .. she could not determine how her mother would take it ; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man .. no , no , you shall not deceive me .. darcy speaking to her ." " aye -- because she asked him at last how he liked netherfield , and he could not help answering her ;-- but she said he seemed very angry at being spoke to ." " miss bingley told me ," said jane , " that he never speaks much unless among his intimate acquaintance .. the whole party were in hopes of a letter from mr .. i must not , however , neglect the duties of my station , or refrain from declaring my amazement , at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were married .. were the same fair prospect to arise at present , as had flattered them a year ago , every thing , she was persuaded , would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion .. he _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety , but his countenance expressed real security .. she did not fear her father ' s opposition , but he was going to be made unhappy , and that it should be through her means , that _she_ , his favourite child , should be distressing him by her choice , should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of her , was a wretched reflection , and she sat in misery till mr .. collins was only a clergyman ; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at meryton .. she was on the point of continuing her walk , when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park ; he was moving that way ; and fearful of its being mr .. having resolved to do it without loss of time , as his leave of absence extended only to the following saturday , and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment , he set about it in a very orderly manner , with all the observances which he supposed a regular part of the business .. a week elapsed before she could see elizabeth without scolding her , a month passed away before she could speak to sir william or lady lucas without being rude , and many months were gone before she could at all forgive their daughter .. allow me to say , lady catherine , that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application , have been as frivolous as the application was ill - judged .. darcy ' s house , and mentioned with raptures , some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture .. bennet and the children .. however , he wrote some verses on her , and very pretty they were ." " and so ended his affection ," said elizabeth impatiently .. gardiner began to wish to be at home , it was settled that she and her children should go to london , at the same time that mr .. it will save me a world of trouble and economy .. on mr .. it was not in her nature , however , to increase her vexations , by dwelling on them .. bennet to his wife , as they were at breakfast the next morning , " that you have ordered a good dinner to - day , because i have reason to expect an addition to our family party ." " who do you mean , my dear ?. his sisters were very anxious for his having an estate of his own ; but though he was now established only as a tenant , miss bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his table , nor was mrs .. on this subject , what can you have to say ?. to have his errors made public might ruin him for ever .. mr .. collins first came to hunsford ." " i believe she did -- and i am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object ." " mr .. hurst and miss bingley , they were noticed only by a curtsey ; and on their being seated , a pause , awkward as such pauses must always be , succeeded for a few moments .. darcy ' s civility , and above all , of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister .. neither jane nor elizabeth were comfortable on this subject .. one cannot wonder that so very fine a young man , with family , fortune , every thing in his favour , should think highly of himself .. " it is a long time , mr .. darcy rise also and follow him , and her agitation on seeing it was extreme .. bingley ' s being there ; and as to the loss of their society , she was persuaded that jane must soon cease to regard it , in the enjoyment of his .. collins ' s picture of hunsford and rosings rationally softened ; and elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there , to know the rest .. both changed colour , one looked white , the other red .. he was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place , and his intrigues , all honoured with the title of seduction , had been extended into every tradesman ' s family .. she felt that she had no business at pemberley , and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it .. " this will not do ," said elizabeth .. collins , and he was very soon obliged to take her ladyship ' s praise into his own hands .. his principal object must be , to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from clapham .. if there _were_ but such another man for you !" " if you were to give me forty such men , i never could be so happy as you .. my feelings will not be repressed .. but do you always write such charming long letters to her , mr .. she heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs .. she had been watching him the last hour , she said , as he walked up and down the street , and had mr .. but do you think she would be prevailed on to go back with us ?. mary ' s powers were by no means fitted for such a display ; her voice was weak , and her manner affected .-- elizabeth was in agonies .. what can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here ?. at that moment sir william lucas appeared close to them , meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room ; but on perceiving mr .. wickham in and near brighton , with assurances of speedy payment , for which i have pledged myself .. bennet accepted the challenge , observing that he acted very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements .. but our visitor was very obstinate .. she could not win him , however , to any conversation ; he merely answered her question , and read on .. bennet and lydia are going in the carriage to meryton .. the letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister , will prove what she felt .. " if i can but see one of my daughters happily settled at netherfield ," said mrs .. " my father and maria are to come to me in march ," added charlotte , " and i hope you will consent to be of the party .. you have withheld the advantages , which you must know to have been designed for him .. and if i am that choice , why may not i accept him ?" " because honour , decorum , prudence , nay , interest , forbid it .. you will have a charming mother - in - law , indeed , and of course she will be always at pemberley with you ." he listened to her with perfect indifference , while she chose to entertain herself in this manner , and as his composure convinced her that all was safe , her wit flowed long .. you _are_ a gentleman ' s daughter .. convinced as elizabeth now was that miss bingley ' s dislike of her had originated in jealousy , she could not help feeling how very unwelcome her appearance at pemberley must be to her , and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady ' s side , the acquaintance would now be renewed .. she longed to enquire of the housekeeper , whether her master were really absent , but had not courage for it .. the others have been gone on to scarborough , these three weeks ." she could think of nothing more to say ; but if he wished to converse with her , he might have better success .. bingley .. redistribution is subject to the trademark license , especially commercial redistribution .. " you may well warn me against such an evil .. philips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence .. i would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere .. hurst and miss bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid , who continued , though slowly , to mend ; and in the evening elizabeth joined their party in the drawing - room .. she longed to see mrs .. it was a rational scheme to be sure !. wickham , who left the place immediately , and mrs .. mr .. they returned therefore in good spirits to longbourn , the village where they lived , and of which they were the principal inhabitants .. in his present behaviour to herself , moreover , she had a fresh source of displeasure , for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance , could only serve , after what had since passed , to provoke her .. she asked her at different times , how many sisters she had , whether they were older or younger than herself , whether any of them were likely to be married , whether they were handsome , where they had been educated , what carriage her father kept , and what had been her mother ' s maiden name ?-- elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions , but answered them very composedly .-- lady catherine then observed , " your father ' s estate is entailed on mr .. he was full of joy and attention .. his words seemed to imply it .. he will be forgot , and we shall all be as we were before ." elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude , but said nothing .. special rules , set forth in the general terms of use part of this license , apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg - tm electronic works to protect the project gutenberg - tm concept and trademark .. collins could not conceal his apprehension of lady catherine ' s being rather displeased by her staying at home .. you have liked many a stupider person ." " dear lizzy !" " oh !. yes ;-- there is nothing in that .. he bore it with noble indifference , and she would have imagined that bingley had received his sanction to be happy , had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards mr .. he saw wickham , and afterwards insisted on seeing lydia .. we have not met since the <NUM> th of november , when we were all dancing together at netherfield ." elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact ; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her , when unattended to by any of the rest , whether _all_ her sisters were at longbourn .. i hope they will not meet at all .. chapter xiv .. collins had settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should be her ' s , it was performed in a proper manner , without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary .. he added , that mr .. miss darcy , though with a diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations , readily obeyed .. you both did as much as you could , in planning the marriage .. bennet .. she could think only of her letter .. " she is a great deal too ill to be moved .. she had been graciously pleased to approve of both the discourses , which he had already had the honour of preaching before her .. i fancy she was wanted about the mince pies .. i guessed as much ." and though he exclaimed at the term , she found that it had been pretty much the case .. collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his successful love ; for mrs .. she found it difficult to obtain even a word from her beyond a monosyllable .. though her manner varied however , her determination never did .. we must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect .. darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me ." elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment , before their approach was announced by the door - bell , and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room .. indeed , mr .. collins seemed likely to sink into insignificance ; to the young ladies he certainly was nothing ; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in mrs .. it is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise ; i hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure .. charlotte did not stay much longer , and elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard .. darcy , it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in hertfordshire -- and , give me leave to say , very impolitic too -- for it is provoking me to retaliate , and such things may come out , as will shock your relations to hear ." " i am not afraid of you ," said he , smilingly .. " when i consider ," she added , in a yet more agitated voice , " that _i_ might have prevented it !-- _i_ who knew what he was .. it would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give ; but they were now necessary , and she assured him with some confusion , of her attachment to mr .. philips , and _she_ ventured , without any permission , to do the same by all her neighbours in meryton .. very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by kitty and lydia , whose own misery was extreme , and who could not comprehend such hard - heartedness in any of the family .. the chief of every day was spent by him at lucas lodge , and he sometimes returned to longbourn only in time to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed .. it is not the object of this work to give a description of derbyshire , nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay ; oxford , blenheim , warwick , kenelworth , birmingham , & c .. reynolds ' s respect for elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master .. it drew from her , however , the exertion of speaking , which nothing else had so effectually done before ; and she asked bingley , whether he meant to make any stay in the country at present .. if i may so express it , he has a _right_ to be proud ." " that is very true ," replied elizabeth , " and i could easily forgive _his_ pride , if he had not mortified _mine_ ." " pride ," observed mary , who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections , " is a very common failing i believe .. bennet was not imagined to be very rich , he would have been able to do something for him , and his situation must have been benefited by marriage .. " how could i ever think her like her nephew ?" said she , as she looked in her face .. we must not all expect jane ' s good fortune ." " true ," said mr .. colonel fitzwilliam was no longer an object .. after walking two or three times along that part of the lane , she was tempted , by the pleasantness of the morning , to stop at the gates and look into the park .. she had a sister married to a mr .. their first subject was the diminution of the rosings party .--" i assure you , i feel it exceedingly ," said lady catherine ; " i believe nobody feels the loss of friends so much as i do .. volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenberg - tm ' s goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg - tm collection will remain freely available for generations to come .. collins for a few moments , he asked elizabeth in a low voice whether her relation were very intimately acquainted with the family of de bourgh .. darcy , by coming in all this state to hear me ?. you agree that the foundation , the trademark owner , and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual , direct , indirect , consequential , punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage .. mrs .. bennet , delighted to speak to a lady catherine .. mr .. wickham was sure to be one ; and on these occasions , mrs .. not one party , or scheme , or any thing .. there will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again ; therefore , stay quietly at longbourn , and depend on my diligence and care .. he did every thing best in the world ; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of september , than any body else in the country .. bingley , it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me .. darcy , however , should have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations was bad enough , and she could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman , or the insolent smiles of the ladies , were more intolerable .. annesley to miss darcy had been given , to remind her of her post .. darcy is uncommonly kind to mr .. the sight of miss lucas was odious to her .. i was obliged to confess one thing , which for a time , and not unjustly , offended him .. project gutenberg is a registered trademark , and may not be used if you charge for the ebooks , unless you receive specific permission .. " it is a delightful thing , to be sure , to have a daughter well married ," continued her mother , " but at the same time , mr .. his sister was less delicate , and directed her eye towards mr .. here , sarah , come to miss bennet this moment , and help her on with her gown .. in the dining - room they were soon joined by mary and kitty , who had been too busily engaged in their separate apartments , to make their appearance before .. as a clergyman , moreover , i feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in all families within the reach of my influence ; and on these grounds i flatter myself that my present overtures of good - will are highly commendable , and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of longbourn estate , will be kindly overlooked on your side , and not lead you to reject the offered olive branch .. its completion depended on others .. it was a large , well - proportioned room , handsomely fitted up .. what do i not owe you !. " yes , ma ' am , that he was indeed ; and his son will be just like him -- just as affable to the poor ." elizabeth listened , wondered , doubted , and was impatient for more .. do not imagine , miss bennet , that your ambition will ever be gratified .. wretched , wretched , mistake !" darcy made no answer .. a woman must have a thorough knowledge of music , singing , drawing , dancing , and the modern languages , to deserve the word ; and besides all this , she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of walking , the tone of her voice , her address and expressions , or the word will be but half deserved ." " all this she must possess ," added darcy , " and to all this she must yet add something more substantial , in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading ." " i am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women .. as long as she stays there , it is all very well .. younge , in whose character we were most unhappily deceived ; and by her connivance and aid , he so far recommended himself to georgiana , whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child , that she was persuaded to believe herself in love , and to consent to an elopement .. he believed him to be imprudent and extravagant .. bingley and his sisters came to give their personal invitation for the long expected ball at netherfield , which was fixed for the following tuesday .. forster , the delight of mrs .. darcy so bad as this -- though i have never liked him , i had not thought so very ill of him -- i had supposed him to be despising his fellow - creatures in general , but did not suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge , such injustice , such inhumanity as this !" after a few minutes reflection , however , she continued , " i _do_ remember his boasting one day , at netherfield , of the implacability of his resentments , of his having an unforgiving temper .. for the truth of every thing here related , i can appeal more particularly to the testimony of colonel fitzwilliam , who from our near relationship and constant intimacy , and still more as one of the executors of my father ' s will , has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions .. but i suppose you had no opportunity .. i was sometimes quite provoked , but then i recollected my dear elizabeth and jane , and for their sakes had patience with her .. collins ' s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for their daughter , to whom they could give little fortune ; and his prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair .. at that moment , she cared for no other .. lady catherine de bourgh ' s attention to his wishes , and consideration for his comfort , appeared very remarkable .. elizabeth was now to see mr .. not a word passed between the sisters concerning bingley ; but elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded , unless mr .. she is almost three and twenty !. they lagged behind , while elizabeth , kitty , and darcy , were to entertain each other .. pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before .. four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt ' s arrival .. long ," said miss lucas , " but i wish he had danced with eliza ." " another time , lizzy ," said her mother , " i would not dance with _him_ , if i were you ." " i believe , ma ' am , i may safely promise you _never_ to dance with him ." " his pride ," said miss lucas , " does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does , because there is an excuse for it .. she had once or twice suggested to elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her , but elizabeth always laughed at the idea ; and mrs .. the venison was roasted to a turn -- and everybody said , they never saw so fat a haunch .. they entered it in one of its lowest points , and drove for some time through a beautiful wood , stretching over a wide extent .. when they left the high road for the lane to hunsford , every eye was in search of the parsonage , and every turning expected to bring it in view .. his brother - in - law , mr .. to know that her daughter would be married was enough .. and so , you like this man ' s sisters too , do you ?. he arranges the business just as he pleases ." " and if not able to please himself in the arrangement , he has at least great pleasure in the power of choice .. see <URL> transcriber ' s note : text enclosed by underscores is in italics ( _italics_ ).. james ' s had made him courteous .. had his character been known , this could not have happened .. her affections had been continually fluctuating , but never without an object .. whenever charlotte came to see them she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession ; and whenever she spoke in a low voice to mr .. these are conditions , which , considering every thing , i had no hesitation in complying with , as far as i thought myself privileged , for you .. is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring ?. bingley arrived .. he began to wish to know more of her , and as a step towards conversing with her himself , attended to her conversation with others .. " do you certainly leave kent on saturday ?" said she .. darcy can please where he chuses .. what do you keep winking at me for ?. bennet to return to longbourn , as soon as he could , to the great consolation of his sister , who considered it as the only security for her husband ' s not being killed in a duel .. yes , there was something in _that_ ; i told you so from the first , you may remember ." " i _did_ hear , too , that there was a time , when sermon - making was not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present ; that you actually declared your resolution of never taking orders , and that the business had been compromised accordingly ." " you did !. professor michael s .. he had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood -- the sort of preference which was often given me ." " i had not thought mr .. that is the place to get husbands .. to jane , he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused , and whose merit she had undervalued ; but to her own more extensive information , he was the person , to whom the whole family were indebted for the first of benefits , and whom she regarded herself with an interest , if not quite so tender , at least as reasonable and just , as what jane felt for bingley .. i should never be happy without him , so think it no harm to be off .. i have therefore made up my mind to tell you , that i do not want to dance a reel at all -- and now despise me if you dare ." " indeed i do not dare ." elizabeth , having rather expected to affront him , was amazed at his gallantry ; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody ; and darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her .. these were the contents : " my dear harriet , " you will laugh when you know where i am gone , and i cannot help laughing myself at your surprise to - morrow morning , as soon as i am missed .. it was possible , however , that some of his companions in the ---- shire , might be able to give more information ; and , though she was not very sanguine in expecting it , the application was a something to look forward to .. elizabeth was excessively disappointed ; she had set her heart on seeing the lakes ; and still thought there might have been time enough .. not that i care about it , though .. do not distress me by the idea .. i know you will do him such ample justice , that i am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent .. my character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness , and in a cause of such moment as this , i shall certainly not depart from it .. by tea - time however the dose had been enough , and mr .. she listened most attentively to all that passed between them , and gloried in every expression , every sentence of her uncle , which marked his intelligence , his taste , or his good manners .. after listening one morning to their effusions on this subject , mr .. the family were assembled in the breakfast room , to receive them .. long and her nieces must stand their chance ; and therefore , as she will think it an act of kindness , if you decline the office , i will take it on myself ." the girls stared at their father .. bennet wrote again to his brother , therefore , he sent his permission for them to come ; and it was settled , that as soon as the ceremony was over , they should proceed to longbourn .. " you are quite a visit in my debt , mr .. he bore with philosophy the conviction that elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her ; and in spite of every thing , was not wholly without hope that darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune .. bennet , " that you should be so ready to think your own children silly .. do not let us quarrel about the past .. and when the party entered the assembly room , it consisted of only five altogether ; mr .. bennet , to whose apartment they all repaired , after a few minutes conversation together , received them exactly as might be expected ; with tears and lamentations of regret , invectives against the villanous conduct of wickham , and complaints of her own sufferings and ill usage ; blaming every body but the person to whose ill judging indulgence the errors of her daughter must be principally owing .. you know how i detest it , unless i am particularly acquainted with my partner .. in this danger kitty is also comprehended .. darcy ' s explanation , by restoring bingley to all her former good opinion , heightened the sense of what jane had lost .. but above all , above respect and esteem , there was a motive within her of good will which could not be overlooked .. i know how much you dislike him ." " you know nothing of the matter .. bennet , " you will wait on him of course ." " no , no .. well , much good may it do them !. the eldest miss bennet beyond a doubt , there cannot be two opinions on that point ." " upon my word !-- well , that was very decided indeed -- that does seem as if ---- but however , it may all come to nothing you know ." " _my_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_ , eliza ," said charlotte .. he looked serious as usual ; and she thought , more as he had been used to look in hertfordshire , than as she had seen him at pemberley .. he took the hint , and soon began with , " this seems a very comfortable house .. but , whatever may be their own wishes , it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother ' s .. in short , my dear aunt , i should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy ; but since we see every day that where there is affection , young people are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune , from entering into engagements with each other , how can i promise to be wiser than so many of my fellow creatures if i am tempted , or how am i even to know that it would be wisdom to resist ?. darcy ?" elizabeth coloured , and said --" a little ." " and do not you think him a very handsome gentleman , ma ' am ?" " yes , very handsome ." " i am sure _i_ know none so handsome ; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a finer , larger picture of him than this .. there was also a legacy of one thousand pounds .. and now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection .. bingley will not be detained in london by them ." " caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into hertfordshire this winter .. the next was in these words .. by mrs .. they can only wish his happiness , and if he is attached to me , no other woman can secure it ." " your first position is false .. darcy seemed much pleased with the attention .. how can it affect them ?" " my dear mr .. there is no danger of wickham ' s marrying mary king .. in the first place , she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter ; secondly , she was very sure that mr .. a clear ten thousand per annum .. " _you_ were mr .. the subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner , and with a most important aspect he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank -- such affability and condescension , as he had himself experienced from lady catherine .. while sir william was with them , mr .. he takes them now for people of fashion ." the introduction , however , was immediately made ; and as she named their relationship to herself , she stole a sly look at him , to see how he bore it ; and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions .. you can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse , however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble ; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken .. four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight , and all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister .. instead of viewing them as a stranger , i might have rejoiced in them as my own , and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt .-- but no ,"-- recollecting herself ,--" that could never be : my uncle and aunt would have been lost to me : i should not have been allowed to invite them ." this was a lucky recollection -- it saved her from something like regret .. but it is so strange !" " yes -- _that_ is what makes it amusing .. my feelings in every respect forbid it .. gardiner , with occasional help from elizabeth , the conversation was carried on .. i know you will contrive it all ." but mr .. gardiner , whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive .. bingley was every thing that was charming , except the professed lover of her daughter .. the day passed most pleasantly away ; the morning in bustle and shopping , and the evening at one of the theatres .. you are very cautious , i suppose , as to its _being created_ ." " i am ," said he , with a firm voice .. all expectation from the brother was now absolutely over .. smiles decked the face of mrs .. on the very last day of the regiment ' s remaining in meryton , he dined with others of the officers at longbourn ; and so little was elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour , that on his making some enquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at hunsford , she mentioned colonel fitzwilliam ' s and mr .. had i known what i ought , what i dared , to do !. his complexion became pale with anger , and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature .. are the shades of pemberley to be thus polluted ?" " you can _now_ have nothing farther to say ," she resentfully answered .. denny , concerning whose return from london lydia came to inquire , and he bowed as they passed .. in the intervals of her discourse with mrs .. what a pity it is , mamma , we did not all go ." " very true ; and if i had my will , we should .. bennet ' s acknowledgments he briefly replied , with assurances of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family ; and concluded with intreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again .. how any one could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one ' s own daughters i cannot understand ; and all for the sake of mr .. it was over at last however .. " his being so sure of succeeding , was wrong ," said she ; " and certainly ought not to have appeared ; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment ." " indeed ," replied elizabeth , " i am heartily sorry for him ; but he has other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me .. his father , miss bennet , the late mr .. from the farther disadvantage of lydia ' s society she was of course carefully kept , and though mrs .. she has no money , no connections , nothing that can tempt him to -- she is lost for ever ." darcy was fixed in astonishment .. you must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg - tm works .. when the ladies removed after dinner , elizabeth ran up to her sister , and seeing her well guarded from cold , attended her into the drawing - room ; where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of pleasure ; and elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared .. it only shews her being deficient in something herself -- sense or feeling ." " well ," cried elizabeth , " have it as you choose .. but i believe i must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at pemberley ." another intreaty that she would be serious , however , produced the desired effect ; and she soon satisfied jane by her solemn assurances of attachment .. " i have found out ," said he , " by a singular accident , that there is now in the room a near relation of my patroness .. they were not the only objects of mr .. their first subject was her sister ; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear , in reply to her minute enquiries , that though jane always struggled to support her spirits , there were periods of dejection .. bennet as much as possible , saying not much to elizabeth , and nothing at all to the others .. when the tea - things were removed , and the card tables placed , the ladies all rose , and elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him , when all her views were overthrown , by seeing him fall a victim to her mother ' s rapacity for whist players , and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party .. darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on miss bennet , and after sitting a few minutes longer without saying much to any body , went away .. but his pride , his abominable pride , his shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to jane , his unpardonable assurance in acknowledging , though he could not justify it , and the unfeeling manner in which he had mentioned mr .. they must be a great loss to _your_ family ." in darcy ' s presence she dared not mention wickham ' s name ; but elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts ; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moment ' s distress ; but , exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill - natured attack , she presently answered the question in a tolerably disengaged tone .. if there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew , i shall certainly not be kept from it , by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry miss de bourgh .. wickham was to the last so steady , that in his will he particularly recommended it to me , to promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allow , and if he took orders , desired that a valuable family living might be his as soon as soon as it became vacant .. they both set off , and the conjectures of the remaining three continued , though with little satisfaction , till the door was thrown open , and their visitor entered .. she resolved to give her the information herself , and therefore charged mr .. but i am particularly attached to these young men ; and know them to be so much attached to me !-- they were excessively sorry to go !. his regard for her was quite imaginary ; and the possibility of her deserving her mother ' s reproach prevented his feeling any regret .. day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevailed in meryton of his coming no more to netherfield the whole winter ; a report which highly incensed mrs .. he was seriously concerned , that a cause of so little advantage to any one , should be forwarded at the sole expence of his brother - in - law , and he was determined , if possible , to find out the extent of his assistance , and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could .. when she was discontented she fancied herself nervous .. darcy .. darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to her situation , that she could , upon the whole , have no cause to repine ." " obstinate , headstrong girl !. collins , in describing the civility of mr .. but he found , in reply to this question , that wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage , in some other country .. darcy , who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish , and who probably never looked at _you_ in his life !. hurst , by whom elizabeth sat , he was an indolent man , who lived only to eat , drink , and play at cards , who when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout , had nothing to say to her .. darcy .. balls will be absolutely prohibited , unless you stand up with one of your sisters .. they were confined for the evening at different tables , and she had nothing to hope , but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side of the room , as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself .. mrs .. lydia was lydia still ; untamed , unabashed , wild , noisy , and fearless .. lizzy is not a bit better than the others ; and i am sure she is not half so handsome as jane , nor half so good humoured as lydia .. he found her as handsome as she had been last year ; as good natured , and as unaffected , though not quite so chatty .. my mother was taken ill immediately , and the whole house in such confusion !" " oh !. about the court , such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon ." scarcely any thing was talked of the whole day or next morning , but their visit to rosings .. " my dear , dear lizzy , i would -- i do congratulate you -- but are you certain ?. miss bingley is to live with her brother and keep his house ; and i am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her ." elizabeth listened in silence , but was not convinced ; their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general ; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister , and with a judgment too unassailed by any attention to herself , she was very little disposed to approve them .. his diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case , but his reliance on mine , made every thing easy .. this information , however , startled mrs .. " a man who has once been refused !. you must feel it ; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me , because you have always so much ." mr .. it is nearly fifty miles ." " and what is fifty miles of good road ?. bingley i am sure .. so imprudent a match on both sides !-- but i am willing to hope the best , and that his character has been misunderstood .. where , where is my uncle ?" cried elizabeth , darting from her seat as she finished the letter , in eagerness to follow him , without losing a moment of the time so precious ; but as she reached the door , it was opened by a servant , and mr .. bingley and his sisters ." elizabeth answered only by a slight bow .. darcy drew his chair a little towards her , and said , " _you_ cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment .. i do not know the particulars , but i know very well that mr .. darcy took her place by her niece , and they walked on together .. mrs .. " he is perfectly well behaved , polite , and unassuming ," said her uncle .. during dinner , mr .. i dare say mr .. iii .. i have great hopes of finding him quite the reverse .. at length , every idea seemed to fail him ; and , after standing a few moments without saying a word , he suddenly recollected himself , and took leave .. darcy .. they owed the restoration of lydia , her character , every thing to him .. their eyes instantly met , and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush .. yes , yes .. mr .. you shall not defend her , though it is charlotte lucas .. she had turned away , but on hearing herself called , though in a voice which proved it to be mr .. at our time of life , it is not so pleasant i can tell you , to be making new acquaintance every day ; but for your sakes , we would do any thing .. will you be very angry with me , my dear lizzy , if i take this opportunity of saying ( what i was never bold enough to say before ) how much i like him .. yet now i must believe you ," cried jane .. elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from jane , on their first arrival at lambton ; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there ; but on the third , her repining was over , and her sister justified by the receipt of two letters from her at once , on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere .. " he could be still amiable , still pleasing , to my uncle and aunt , when he was in town ; and why not to me ?. we are not rich enough , or grand enough for them ; and she is the more anxious to get miss darcy for her brother , from the notion that when there has been _one_ intermarriage , she may have less trouble in achieving a second ; in which there is certainly some ingenuity , and i dare say it would succeed , if miss de bourgh were out of the way .. wickham had accepted their uncle ' s invitation , and was then in the house .. assistance is impossible ; condolence , insufferable .. but lady catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration , and gave most gracious smiles , especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them .. jane was anxious that no difference should be perceived in her at all , and was really persuaded that she talked as much as ever .. she now lost every expectation of pleasure .. but though every thing seemed neat and comfortable , she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance ; and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she could have so cheerful an air , with such a companion .. i do not wish to avoid the walk .. this is my advice .. but the person who advanced , was now near enough to see her , and stepping forward with eagerness , pronounced her name .. he had never before supposed that , could wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter , it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself , as by the present arrangement .. she was at least free from the offence of mr .. with assumed tranquillity he then replied , " i have no wish of denying that i did every thing in my power to separate my friend from your sister , or that i rejoice in my success .. you deserve no such attention .. darcy handed the ladies into the carriage , and when it drove off , elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house .. he had never had the slightest suspicion .. the two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit , and the result of it was , that the youngest should tax mr .. after walking several miles in a leisurely manner , and too busy to know any thing about it , they found at last , on examining their watches , that it was time to be at home .. it was not known that wickham had a single relation , with whom he kept up any connection , and it was certain that he had no near one living .. i was told , that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married , but that _you_ , that miss elizabeth bennet , would , in all likelihood , be soon afterwards united to my nephew , my own nephew , mr .. it is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address , and a stronger desire of generally pleasing than any other man ." " you are very cruel ," said her sister , " you will not let me smile , and are provoking me to it every moment ." " how hard it is in some cases to be believed !" " and how impossible in others !" " but why should you wish to persuade me that i feel more than i acknowledge ?" " that is a question which i hardly know how to answer .. the fishing scheme had been renewed the day before , and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at pemberley by noon .. elizabeth had frequently united with jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of catherine and lydia ; but while they were supported by their mother ' s indulgence , what chance could there be of improvement ?. while the contents of the first letter remained on her mind , she was all surprise -- all astonishment that wickham should marry a girl , whom it was impossible he could marry for money ; and how lydia could ever have attached him , had appeared incomprehensible .. not a syllable was uttered by either ; and elizabeth was on the point of going away again , when bingley , who as well as the other had sat down , suddenly rose , and whispering a few words to her sister , ran out of the room .. put them next to your great uncle the judge .. gardiner went away in all the perplexity about elizabeth and her derbyshire friend , that had attended her from that part of the world .. it had better have happened to _you_ , lizzy ; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner .. miss darcy ' s praise occupied the chief of it .. " _you_ want to tell me , and i have no objection to hearing it ." this was invitation enough .. newby chief executive and director <MAILID> section <NUM> .. this is not quite enough to make her understand his character ." " not as you represent it .. her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way .. from the entrance hall , of which mr .. do not charge a fee for access to , viewing , displaying , performing , copying or distributing any project gutenberg - tm works unless you comply with paragraph <NUM> . e . <NUM> or <NUM> . e . <NUM> .. hurst and elizabeth herself .. my brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers .. her prudent mother , occupied by the same ideas , forbore to invite him to sit by herself .. when jane and elizabeth were alone , the former , who had been cautious in her praise of mr .. she often tried to provoke darcy into disliking her guest , by talking of their supposed marriage , and planning his happiness in such an alliance .. bingley to see you all after him so soon ; for , if i recollect right , he went but the day before .. bennet , when elizabeth had read the note aloud , " if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness , if she should die , it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of mr .. a low phaeton , with a nice little pair of ponies , would be the very thing .. i scarcely know any one who cannot do all this , and i am sure i never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time , without being informed that she was very accomplished ." " your list of the common extent of accomplishments ," said darcy , " has too much truth .. bingley , was incomprehensible .. what could your ladyship propose by it ?" " at once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted ." " your coming to longbourn , to see me and my family ," said elizabeth , coolly , " will be rather a confirmation of it ; if , indeed , such a report is in existence ." " if !. lady catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed .. i shall not go away , till you have given me the assurance i require ." " and i certainly _never_ shall give it .. his air was grave and stately , and his manners were very formal .. by elizabeth ' s instructions she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband , which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself .. i am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side , for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing , if she had been well looked after .. here , leading the way through every walk and cross walk , and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises he asked for , every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind .. teazing , teazing , man !. hurst reminded his sister - in - law of the card - table -- but in vain .. a most delightful place !-- excellent parsonage house !. chapter ii .. " i never heard any thing so abominable .. and yet , upon my honour , i believed what i said of myself to be true , and i believe it at this moment .. it is really too great a violation of decency , honour , and interest , for him to be guilty of it .. the envelope contained a sheet of elegant , little , hot pressed paper , well covered with a lady ' s fair , flowing hand ; and elizabeth saw her sister ' s countenance change as she read it , and saw her dwelling intently on some particular passages .. " i did not think caroline in spirits ," were her words , " but she was very glad to see me , and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming to london .. here are officers enough at meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country .. they must all go to brighton .. but perhaps mr .. the wisest and the best of men , nay , the wisest and best of their actions , may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke ." " certainly ," replied elizabeth --" there are such people , but i hope i am not one of _them_ .. he cannot know what mr .. i don ' t know .. " oh , jane , take care ." " my dear lizzy , you cannot think me so weak , as to be in danger now ." " i think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever ." * * * * * they did not see the gentlemen again till tuesday ; and mrs .. bennet scarcely spoke at all ; but when the servants were withdrawn , he thought it time to have some conversation with his guest , and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to shine , by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness .. you have widely mistaken my character , if you think i can be worked on by such persuasions as these .. on the following morning he hastened to rosings to pay his respects .. she read , with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension , and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring , was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes .. the good news quickly spread through the house ; and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood .. " of music !. kitty was the only one who shed tears ; but she did weep from vexation and envy .. their parties abroad were less varied than before ; and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dulness of every thing around them , threw a real gloom over their domestic circle ; and , though kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense , since the disturbers of her brain were removed , her other sister , from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended , was likely to be hardened in all her folly and assurance , by a situation of such double danger as a watering place and a camp .. bingley will be very glad to see you ; and i will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying which ever he chuses of the girls ; though i must throw in a good word for my little lizzy ." " i desire you will do no such thing .. jane instantly gave a look at elizabeth , which spoke her distress at such premeditation , and her intreaty that _she_ would not give into it .. i had not an idea of it ." mr .. it makes me very nervous and poorly , to be thwarted so in my own family , and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else .. darcy !. her sisters were uneasy for her , but her mother was delighted . 